+++
author = "Cary Nelson"
citation_link = "http://hdl.handle.net/2333.1/jwstqmh0"
bookpubdate = 1997
date = 1997-01-01
description = "In an age when innovative scholarly work is at an all-time high, the academy itself is being rocked by structural change. Funding is plummeting. Tenure increasingly seems a prospect for only the elite few. Ph.D.'s are going begging for even adjunct work. Into this tumult steps Cary Nelson, with a no- holds-barred account of recent developments in higher education. Eloquent and witty, Manifesto of a Tenured Radical urges academics to apply the theoretical advances of the last twenty years to an analysis of their own practices and standards of behavior. In the process, Nelson offers a devastating critique of current inequities and a detailed proposal for change in the form of A Twelve-Step Program for Academia. "
description_html = "<p>In an age when innovative scholarly work is at an all-time high, the academy itself is being rocked by structural change. Funding is plummeting. Tenure increasingly seems a prospect for only the elite few. Ph.D.'s are going begging for even adjunct work. Into this tumult steps Cary Nelson, with a no- holds-barred account of recent developments in higher education.</p> <p>Eloquent and witty, <B>Manifesto of a Tenured Radical</B> urges academics to apply the theoretical advances of the last twenty years to an analysis of their own practices and standards of behavior. In the process, Nelson offers a devastating critique of current inequities and a detailed proposal for change in the form of A Twelve-Step Program for Academia. </p>"
format = "254 pages"
isbn = 9780814757970
isfeatureditem = 1
publisher = "New York University Press"
thumbhref = "epub_content/9780814757970/ops/images/9780814757970-th.jpg"
title = "Manifesto of a Tenured Radical"
title_sort = "Manifesto of a Tenured Radical"
subjects = ["Education", "History"]
solrsubject = "EDUCATION / History"
license = "Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License"
license_abbreviation = "CC BY-NC-SA"
license_icon = "https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/80x15.png"
license_link = "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"

+++
