+++
author = "Mark Hertzog"
citation_link = "http://hdl.handle.net/2333.1/5tb2rd9k"
bookpubdate = 1996
date = 1996-01-01
description = "In the quarter century since the Stonewall riots in New York City's Greenwich Village launched the national gay-rights movement in earnest, LGB voters have steadily expanded their political influence. The Lavender Vote is the first full- length examination of lesbians, gay men, and bisexuals as a factor in American elections. Mark Hertzog here describes the differences in demographics, attitudes, and voting behavior between self-identified bisexuals and homosexuals and the rest of the voting population. He shows that lavender self- identifiers comprise a distinctive voting bloc equal in numbers to Latino voters, more liberal across the board on domestic social issues (though not necessarily on economic or national security issues) than non-gay voters, and extremely unified in high-salience elections. Further, lavender voters, contrary to popular belief, are up for grabs between the two major parties.Offering a clear and thorough explanation of LGB voting tendencies, this volume will be must-reading for elected officials, candidates for office, and all those interested in learning about LGB voters. "
description_html = "<p>In the quarter century since the Stonewall riots in New York City's Greenwich Village launched the national gay-rights movement in earnest, LGB voters have steadily expanded their political influence. The Lavender Vote is the first full- length examination of lesbians, gay men, and bisexuals as a factor in American elections. Mark Hertzog here describes the differences in demographics, attitudes, and voting behavior between self-identified bisexuals and homosexuals and the rest of the voting population. He shows that lavender self- identifiers comprise a distinctive voting bloc equal in numbers to Latino voters, more liberal across the board on domestic social issues (though not necessarily on economic or national security issues) than non-gay voters, and extremely unified in high-salience elections. Further, lavender voters, contrary to popular belief, are up for grabs between the two major parties.<p>Offering a clear and thorough explanation of LGB voting tendencies, this volume will be must-reading for elected officials, candidates for office, and all those interested in learning about LGB voters. </p>"
format = "288 pages"
isbn = 9780814735305
publisher = "New York University Press"
subjects = ["Gender & Women’s Studies", "LGBT Studies", "Politics"]
subtitle = "Lesbians, Gay Men, and Bisexuals in American Electoral Politics"
thumbhref = "epub_content/9780814735305/ops/images/9780814735305-th.jpg"
title = "The Lavender Vote"
title_sort = "Lavender Vote"
solrsubject = "SOCIAL SCIENCE / Gay Studies"
license = "Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License"
license_abbreviation = "CC BY-NC-SA"
license_icon = "https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/80x15.png"
license_link = "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"

+++
