+++
author = "Jen Jack Gieseking"
citation_link = "http://hdl.handle.net/2333.1/c866tbmx"
bookpubdate = 2020
date = 2020-01-01
description = "The first lesbian and queer historical geography of New York City. Over the past few decades, rapid gentrification in New York City has led to the disappearance of many lesbian and queer spaces, displacing some of the most marginalized members of the LGBTQ+ community. In A Queer New York, Jen Jack Gieseking highlights the historic significance of these spaces, mapping the political, economic, and geographic dispossession of an important, thriving community that once called certain New York neighborhoods home. Focusing on well-known neighborhoods like Greenwich Village, Park Slope, Bedford-Stuyvesant, and Crown Heights, Gieseking shows how lesbian and queer neighborhoods have folded under the capitalist influence of white, wealthy gentrifiers who have ultimately failed to make room for them. Nevertheless, they highlight the ways lesbian and queer communities have succeeded in carving out spaces—and lives—in a city that has consistently pushed its most vulnerable citizens away. Beautifully written, A Queer New York is an eye-opening account of how lesbians and queers have survived in the face of twenty-first century gentrification and urban development."
description_html = "<p><b>The first lesbian and queer historical geography of New York City</b></p><p>Over the past few decades, rapid gentrification in New York City has led to the disappearance of many lesbian and queer spaces, displacing some of the most marginalized members of the LGBTQ+ community. In <i>A Queer New York</i>, Jen Jack Gieseking highlights the historic significance of these spaces, mapping the political, economic, and geographic dispossession of an important, thriving community that once called certain New York neighborhoods home.</p><p>Focusing on well-known neighborhoods like Greenwich Village, Park Slope, Bedford-Stuyvesant, and Crown Heights, Gieseking shows how lesbian and queer neighborhoods have folded under the capitalist influence of white, wealthy gentrifiers who have ultimately failed to make room for them. Nevertheless, they highlight the ways lesbian and queer communities have succeeded in carving out spaces—and lives—in a city that has consistently pushed its most vulnerable citizens away.</p><p>Beautifully written, <i>A Queer New York</i> is an eye-opening account of how lesbians and queers have survived in the face of twenty-first century gentrification and urban development.</p>"
featured_on_homepage = 1
format = "336 Pages"
isbn = 9781479835737
publisher = "New York University Press"
subtitle = "Geographies of Lesbians, Dykes, and Queers"
thumbhref = "epub_content/9781479835737/ops/images/9781479835737-th.jpg"
title = "A Queer New York"
title_sort = "Queer New York"
solrsubject = "Sociology / History / LGBT Studies"
subjects = ["Sociology", "History", "LGBT Studies"]
license = "Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License"
license_abbreviation = "CC BY-NC-ND"
license_icon = "https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/80x15.png"
license_link = "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/"

+++
